docs/chaos-engineering/Chaos Faults/VMware/vmware-vm-poweroff.md, before:

---
id: vmware-vmpoweroff
title: VMware VM-Poweroff
---

## Introduction
- It causes VMWare VMs to Stop/Power-off before bringing them back to Powered-on state after a specified chaos duration using the VMWare APIs to start/stop the target VM.
- It helps to check the performance of the application/process running on the VMWare VMs.

:::tip
Fault execution flow chart
<img src="https://litmuschaos.github.io/litmus/experiments/images/vm-poweroff.png" />
:::

## Uses
<details>
<summary>View the uses of the experiment</summary>
<div>
Coming soon.
</div>
</details>

## Prerequisites
:::info
- Ensure that Kubernetes Version > 1.16 
- Ensure that the Litmus Chaos Operator is running by executing <code>kubectl get pods</code> in operator namespace (typically, <code>litmus</code>).If not, install from <a href="https://v1-docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/getstarted/#install-litmus">here</a>
- Ensure that the <code>vm-poweroff</code> experiment resource is available in the cluster by executing <code>kubectl get chaosexperiments</code> in the desired namespace. If not, install from <a href="https://hub.litmuschaos.io/api/chaos/master?file=charts/vmware/vm-poweroff/experiment.yaml">here</a>
- Ensure that you have sufficient Vcenter access to stop and start the VM.
- (Optional) Ensure to create a Kubernetes secret having the Vcenter credentials in the `CHAOS_NAMESPACE`. A sample secret file looks like:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vcenter-secret
  namespace: litmus
type: Opaque
stringData:
    VCENTERSERVER: XXXXXXXXXXX
    VCENTERUSER: XXXXXXXXXXXXX
    VCENTERPASS: XXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

### NOTE
You can pass the VM credentials as secrets or as an ChaosEngine ENV variable.
:::

    
## Default Validations
:::info
- VM should be in healthy state.
:::
## Minimal RBAC configuration example (optional)

<details>
<summary>Minimal RBAC configuration</summary>
If you are using this experiment as part of a litmus workflow scheduled constructed & executed from chaos-center, then you may be making use of the <a href="https://litmuschaos.github.io/litmus/litmus-admin-rbac.yaml">litmus-admin</a> RBAC, which is pre installed in the cluster as part of the agent setup.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  namespace: default
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
rules:
  # Create and monitor the experiment & helper pods
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["create","delete","get","list","patch","update", "deletecollection"]
  # Performs CRUD operations on the events inside chaosengine and chaosresult
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["create","get","list","patch","update"]
  # Fetch configmaps & secrets details and mount it to the experiment pod (if specified)
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets","configmaps"]
    verbs: ["get","list",]
  # Track and get the runner, experiment, and helper pods log 
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get","list","watch"]  
  # for creating and managing to execute comands inside target container
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["get","list","create"]
  # for configuring and monitor the experiment job by the chaos-runner pod
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs"]
    verbs: ["create","list","get","delete","deletecollection"]
  # for creation, status polling and deletion of litmus chaos resources used within a chaos workflow
  - apiGroups: ["litmuschaos.io"]
    resources: ["chaosengines","chaosexperiments","chaosresults"]
    verbs: ["create","list","get","patch","update","delete"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  namespace: default
```
Use this sample RBAC manifest to create a chaosServiceAccount in the desired (app) namespace. This example consists of the minimum necessary role permissions to execute the experiment.
</details>

## Experiment tunables
<details>
    <summary>Check the Experiment Tunables</summary>
    <h2>Mandatory Fields</h2>
    <table>
      <tr>
        <th> Variables </th>
        <th> Description </th>
        <th> Notes </th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> APP_VM_MOIDS </td>
        <td> MOIDs of the vmware instance</td>
        <td> Once you open VM in vCenter WebClient, you can find MOID in address field (VirtualMachine:vm-5365). Alternatively you can use the CLI to fetch the MOID. Eg: vm-5365 </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <h2>Optional Fields</h2>
    <table>
      <tr>
        <th> Variables </th>
        <th> Description </th>
        <th> Notes </th>
      </tr>
      <tr> 
        <td> TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION </td>
        <td> The total time duration for chaos insertion (sec) </td>
        <td> Defaults to 30s </td>
      </tr>
      <tr> 
        <td> CHAOS_INTERVAL </td>
        <td> The interval (in sec) between successive instance termination </td>
        <td> Defaults to 30s </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> SEQUENCE </td>
        <td> It defines sequence of chaos execution for multiple instance </td>
        <td> Default value: parallel. Supported: serial, parallel </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> RAMP_TIME </td>
        <td> Period to wait before and after injection of chaos in sec </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
</details>

## Experiment Examples

### Common Experiment Tunables
Refer the [common attributes](../../../common/common-tunables-for-all-experiments) to tune the common tunables for all the experiments.

### Stop/Poweroff VM By MOID

It contains MOID of the vm instance. It can be tuned via `APP_VM_MOIDS` ENV.

Use the following example to tune this:

[embedmd]:# (https://raw.githubusercontent.com/litmuschaos/litmus/master/mkdocs/docs/experiments/categories/vmware/vm-poweroff/app-vm-moid.yaml yaml)
```yaml
# power-off the VMWare VM
apiVersion: litmuschaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: ChaosEngine
metadata:
  name: engine-nginx
spec:
  engineState: "active"
  annotationCheck: "false"
  chaosServiceAccount: vm-poweroff-sa
  experiments:
  - name: vm-poweroff
    spec:
      components:
        env:
        # MOID of the VM
        - name: APP_VM_MOIDS
          value: 'vm-53,vm-65'

        - name: TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION
          VALUE: '60'
```

Commit message:

added flow charts and manifests
Signed-off-by: Neelanjan Manna <neelanjan.manna@harness.io>

docs/chaos-engineering/Chaos Faults/VMware/vmware-vm-poweroff.md, after:

---
id: vmware-vmpoweroff
title: VMware VM-Poweroff
---

## Introduction
- It causes VMWare VMs to Stop/Power-off before bringing them back to Powered-on state after a specified chaos duration using the VMWare APIs to start/stop the target VM.
- It helps to check the performance of the application/process running on the VMWare VMs.

:::tip Fault execution flow chart
![VMware VM Poweroff](./static/images/vm-poweroff.png)
:::

## Uses
<details>
<summary>View the uses of the experiment</summary>
<div>
Coming soon.
</div>
</details>

## Prerequisites
:::info
- Ensure that Kubernetes Version > 1.16 
- Ensure that the Litmus Chaos Operator is running by executing <code>kubectl get pods</code> in operator namespace (typically, <code>litmus</code>).If not, install from <a href="https://v1-docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/getstarted/#install-litmus">here</a>
- Ensure that the <code>vm-poweroff</code> experiment resource is available in the cluster by executing <code>kubectl get chaosexperiments</code> in the desired namespace. If not, install from <a href="https://hub.litmuschaos.io/api/chaos/master?file=charts/vmware/vm-poweroff/experiment.yaml">here</a>
- Ensure that you have sufficient Vcenter access to stop and start the VM.
- (Optional) Ensure to create a Kubernetes secret having the Vcenter credentials in the `CHAOS_NAMESPACE`. A sample secret file looks like:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: vcenter-secret
  namespace: litmus
type: Opaque
stringData:
    VCENTERSERVER: XXXXXXXXXXX
    VCENTERUSER: XXXXXXXXXXXXX
    VCENTERPASS: XXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

### NOTE
You can pass the VM credentials as secrets or as an ChaosEngine ENV variable.
:::

    
## Default Validations
:::info
- VM should be in healthy state.
:::
## Minimal RBAC configuration example (optional)

<details>
<summary>Minimal RBAC configuration</summary>
If you are using this experiment as part of a litmus workflow scheduled constructed & executed from chaos-center, then you may be making use of the <a href="https://litmuschaos.github.io/litmus/litmus-admin-rbac.yaml">litmus-admin</a> RBAC, which is pre installed in the cluster as part of the agent setup.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  namespace: default
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
rules:
  # Create and monitor the experiment & helper pods
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["create","delete","get","list","patch","update", "deletecollection"]
  # Performs CRUD operations on the events inside chaosengine and chaosresult
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["events"]
    verbs: ["create","get","list","patch","update"]
  # Fetch configmaps & secrets details and mount it to the experiment pod (if specified)
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["secrets","configmaps"]
    verbs: ["get","list",]
  # Track and get the runner, experiment, and helper pods log 
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get","list","watch"]  
  # for creating and managing to execute comands inside target container
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/exec"]
    verbs: ["get","list","create"]
  # for configuring and monitor the experiment job by the chaos-runner pod
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs"]
    verbs: ["create","list","get","delete","deletecollection"]
  # for creation, status polling and deletion of litmus chaos resources used within a chaos workflow
  - apiGroups: ["litmuschaos.io"]
    resources: ["chaosengines","chaosexperiments","chaosresults"]
    verbs: ["create","list","get","patch","update","delete"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  labels:
    name: vm-poweroff-sa
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: litmus
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: vm-poweroff-sa
  namespace: default
```
Use this sample RBAC manifest to create a chaosServiceAccount in the desired (app) namespace. This example consists of the minimum necessary role permissions to execute the experiment.
</details>

## Experiment tunables
<details>
    <summary>Check the Experiment Tunables</summary>
    <h2>Mandatory Fields</h2>
    <table>
      <tr>
        <th> Variables </th>
        <th> Description </th>
        <th> Notes </th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> APP_VM_MOIDS </td>
        <td> MOIDs of the vmware instance</td>
        <td> Once you open VM in vCenter WebClient, you can find MOID in address field (VirtualMachine:vm-5365). Alternatively you can use the CLI to fetch the MOID. Eg: vm-5365 </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <h2>Optional Fields</h2>
    <table>
      <tr>
        <th> Variables </th>
        <th> Description </th>
        <th> Notes </th>
      </tr>
      <tr> 
        <td> TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION </td>
        <td> The total time duration for chaos insertion (sec) </td>
        <td> Defaults to 30s </td>
      </tr>
      <tr> 
        <td> CHAOS_INTERVAL </td>
        <td> The interval (in sec) between successive instance termination </td>
        <td> Defaults to 30s </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> SEQUENCE </td>
        <td> It defines sequence of chaos execution for multiple instance </td>
        <td> Default value: parallel. Supported: serial, parallel </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td> RAMP_TIME </td>
        <td> Period to wait before and after injection of chaos in sec </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
    </table>
</details>

## Experiment Examples

### Common Experiment Tunables
Refer the [common attributes](../common-tunables-for-all-experiments) to tune the common tunables for all the experiments.

### Stop/Poweroff VM By MOID

It contains MOID of the vm instance. It can be tuned via `APP_VM_MOIDS` ENV.

Use the following example to tune this:

[embedmd]:# (./static/manifests/vm-poweroff/app-vm-moid.yaml yaml)
```yaml
# power-off the VMWare VM
apiVersion: litmuschaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: ChaosEngine
metadata:
  name: engine-nginx
spec:
  engineState: "active"
  annotationCheck: "false"
  chaosServiceAccount: vm-poweroff-sa
  experiments:
  - name: vm-poweroff
    spec:
      components:
        env:
        # MOID of the VM
        - name: APP_VM_MOIDS
          value: 'vm-53,vm-65'

        - name: TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION
          VALUE: '60'
```
